What is a linked list as the name suggests it's a list that is linked Andre.
That's not very helpful.
Can you actually explain it to us.
All right.
Well I have a little diagram here for you.
A list or in this case as we'll find out soon a singly linked list contains a set of notes and think
of nodes as these blocks.
Both the bread and green block together is a note these notes have two elements the value of the data
you want to store.
In this case the number five and a pointer to the next node in line.
So you can see the green block here points to the next node the first node is called the head.
And the last node is called the tail now depending on some people some people like to call the tail
anything that is after the head so including this block over here.
But I prefer the term tail referring to the very last note finally linked lists are what we call null
terminated which signifies that it's the end of the list.
So we know that this is the tail node because it points to.
No there's nothing coming after it.
Now pointer is a term that you hear a lot in programming and computer science.
And we have a video coming up discussing what a pointer actually is.
But defocus just on linked lists for now you can see that it's a very simple data structure.
It's simply an element that links to the next element that links to the next element and it keeps going
keeps going keeps going until the last element that points to no you can have them sorted.
You can have them on sorted and you can have.
No it's pretty much contain any sort of data type.
But let's take a look at some pseudo code.
Up until now we learned how arrays work and here I can just create a simple array.
Let's say a basket that contains our grocery list we have apples we have grapes the most delicious soda
fruits and we have pears.
Now how can we have a basket that's not an array but a linked list.
Well we can just say that our linked list and this is not actual code just pseudo code.
I can say that our linked list will contain apples that then points to grapes that then points to pears
and these little arrows are essentially pointers saying apples to grapes to pierce.
Remember this isn't actually code I'm just creating a nice diagram for you.
A more accurate diagram might be something like this where we have apples in memory of memory space
of let's say a 9 4 7 and this node points to the next node which is grapes that is at this location
in memory and then that node points to Paris that is at this location in memory.
And because this is the end of the list the tale it points to no.
Now you're thinking to yourself Andre How come you're not just coding this in javascript just show us
how linked lists work and Javascript and stop with this pseudo code jibberish Well javascript doesn't
actually come with Linked Lists built in.
Remember what I said different languages have different tools available to them.
Languages like Java have linked lists while javascript doesn't come pre-built with linked lists.
But luckily for us we can build one.
And this is why you typically do in programming when you don't have something you build it.
And we have the building blocks to be able to build a linked list and that's what we're going to do
as part of an exercise coming up but before we code our own linked list and create our own linked list
data structure let's do a fun little exercise.